This vulnerability increases the likelihood that attackers are able to compute the cleartext of password hashes.
 
## Why is this an issue?
 
During the process of password hashing, an additional component, known as a "salt," is often integrated to bolster the overall security. This salt, acting as a defensive measure, primarily wards off certain types of attacks that leverage pre-computed tables to crack passwords.
 
However, potential risks emerge when the salt is deemed insecure. This can occur when the salt is consistently the same across all users or when it is too short or predictable. In scenarios where users share the same password and salt, their password hashes will inevitably mirror each other. Similarly, a short salt heightens the probability of multiple users unintentionally having identical salts, which can potentially lead to identical password hashes. These identical hashes streamline the process for potential attackers to recover clear-text passwords. Thus, the emphasis on implementing secure, unique, and sufficiently lengthy salts in password-hashing functions is vital.
 
### What is the potential impact?
 
Despite best efforts, even well-guarded systems might have vulnerabilities that could allow an attacker to gain access to the hashed passwords. This could be due to software vulnerabilities, insider threats, or even successful phishing attempts that give attackers the access they need.
 
Once the attacker has these hashes, they will likely attempt to crack them using a couple of methods. One is brute force, which entails trying every possible combination until the correct password is found. While this can be time-consuming, having the same salt for all users or a short salt can make the task significantly easier and faster.
 
If multiple users have the same password and the same salt, their password hashes would be identical. This means that if an attacker successfully cracks one hash, they have effectively cracked all identical ones, granting them access to multiple accounts at once.
 
A short salt, while less critical than a shared one, still increases the odds of different users having the same salt. This might create clusters of password hashes with identical salt that can then be attacked as explained before.
 
With short salts, the probability of a collision between two users' passwords and salts couple might be low depending on the salt size. The shorter the salt, the higher the collision probability. In any case, using longer, cryptographically secure salt should be preferred.
 
## How to fix it in .NET
 
### Code examples
 
The following code contains examples of hard-coded salts.
 
#### Noncompliant code example

    using System.Security.Cryptography;
    
    public static void hash(string password)
    {
        var salt = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("salty");
        var hashed = new Rfc2898DeriveBytes(password, salt); // Noncompliant
    }

#### Compliant solution

    using System.Security.Cryptography;
    
    public static void hash(string password)
    {
        var hashed = new Rfc2898DeriveBytes(password, 16);
    }

### How does this work?
 
This code ensures that each user’s password has a unique salt value associated with it. It generates a salt randomly and with a length that provides the required security level. It uses a salt length of at least 16 bytes (128 bits), as recommended by industry standards.
 
In the case of the code sample, the class automatically takes care of generating a secure salt if none is specified.
 
## Resources
 
### Standards
 
- OWASP - [Top 10 2021 Category A2 - Cryptographic Failures](https://owasp.org/Top10/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures/)
- OWASP - [Top 10 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data
  Exposure](https://www.owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A3_2017-Sensitive_Data_Exposure)
- CWE - [CWE-759 - Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/759)
- CWE - [CWE-760 - Use of a One-Way Hash with a Predictable Salt](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/760)