## Why is this an issue?
 
The [shifting](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/operators/bitwise-and-shift-operators#left-shift-operator-) operators are used to do an [arithmetic shift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic_shift) to the bits of an [integral numeric](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/integral-numeric-types) value, either to the left or the right.

    var number = 14;         // ...01110 (14)
    var left = number << 1;  // ...11100 (28)
    var right = number >> 1; // ...00111 (7)

Therefore, shifting an integral number by 0 is equivalent to doing nothing, since the bits do not move any positions to the left or the right.
 
On the other hand, shifting an integral number by a value greater than their count of bits minus one (`n_bits-1`) is equivalent to shifting by the value [modulo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modulo) the bit count of the number (`value % n_bits`).
 
In the case of `int` and `uint`, which take 32 bits in the memory, the shift count is given by the five low-order bits of the second operand, which can represent numbers from 0 to 31. This means that numbers having the same five low-order bits are treated the same by the shift operators.

    var one =         0b0_00001;
    var thirtyThree = 0b1_00001; // Same five low-order bits, 33 % 32 = 1
    
    var shifted1 = 42 << one;           // Results in 84
    var shifted2 = 42 << thirtyThree;   // Results in 84

Note that integral number with a less than 32-bit quantity (e.g. `short`, `ushort`) are implicitly converted to `int` before the shifting operation and so the rule for `int`/`uint` applies.
 
If the first operand is a `long` or `ulong` (64-bit quantity), the shift count is given by the six low-order bits of the second operand. That is, the actual shift count is 0 to 63 bits.
 
### Exceptions
 
This rule doesn’t raise an issue when the shift by zero is obviously for cosmetic reasons:
 
- When the value shifted is a literal.
- When there is a similar shift at the same position on line before or after. E.g.:

    bytes[loc+0] = (byte)(value >> 8);
    bytes[loc+1] = (byte)(value >> 0);

## How to fix it
 
### Code examples
 
#### Noncompliant code example

    short s = 1;
    short shortShift1 = (short)(s << 0); // Noncompliant: the value does not change
    short shortShift2 = (short)(s << 33); // Noncompliant: this is equivalent to shifting by 1
    
    int i = 1;
    int intShift = i << 33; // Noncompliant: this is equivalent to shifting by 1
    
    long lg = 1;
    long longShift1 = lg << 0; // Noncompliant: the value does not change
    long longShift2 = lg << 65; // Noncompliant: this is equivalent to shifting by 1

#### Compliant solution

    short s = 1;
    short shortShift1 = s;
    short shortShift2 = (short)(s << 1);
    
    int i = 1;
    var intShift = i << 1;
    
    long lg = 1;
    var longShift1 = lg;
    var longShift2 = lg << 1;

## Resources
 
### Documentation

- Microsoft Learn - [Bitwise and
  shift operators (C# reference)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/operators/bitwise-and-shift-operators#left-shift-operator-)
- Wikipedia - [Arithmetic shift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic_shift)
- Wikipedia - [Modulo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modulo)