
Rejecting requests with significant content length is a good practice to control the network traffic intensity and thus resource consumption in order to prevents DoS attacks.

## Ask Yourself Whether

- size limits are not defined for the different resources of the web application.
- the web application is not protected by [rate limiting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rate_limiting) features.
- the web application infrastructure has limited resources.


There is a risk if you answered yes to any of those questions.

## Recommended Secure Coding Practices

- For most of the features of an application, it is recommended to limit the size of requests to:
    - lower or equal to 8mb for file uploads.
    - lower or equal to 2mb for other requests.


It is recommended to customize the rule with the limit values that correspond to the web application.

## Sensitive Code Example


    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    
    public class MyController : Controller
    {
        [HttpPost]
        [DisableRequestSizeLimit] // Sensitive: No size  limit
        [RequestSizeLimit(10000000)] // Sensitive: 10MB is more than the recommended limit of 8MB
        public IActionResult PostRequest(Model model)
        {
        // ...
        }
    
        [HttpPost]
        [RequestFormLimits(MultipartBodyLengthLimit = 8000000)] // Sensitive: 10MB is more than the recommended limit of 8MB
        public IActionResult MultipartFormRequest(Model model)
        {
        // ...
        }
    }


## Compliant Solution


    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    
    public class MyController : Controller
    {
        [HttpPost]
        [RequestSizeLimit(8000000)] // Compliant: 8MB
        public IActionResult PostRequest(Model model)
        {
        // ...
        }
    
        [HttpPost]
        [RequestFormLimits(MultipartBodyLengthLimit = 8000000)] // Compliant: 8MB
        public IActionResult MultipartFormRequest(Model model)
        {
        // ...
        }
    }


## See

- [Owasp Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Denial_of_Service_Cheat_Sheet.html) - Owasp Denial of Service
  Cheat Sheet
- [OWASP Top 10 2017 Category A6](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top_10-2017_A6-Security_Misconfiguration) - Security
  Misconfiguration
- [CWE-770](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/770.html) - Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling
- [CWE-400](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/400.html) - Uncontrolled Resource Consumption

