This rule recommends using `DateTimeOffset` instead of `DateTime` for projects targeting .NET Framework 2.0 or later.

## Why is this an issue?

You should use `DateTimeOffset` instead of `DateTime` as it provides all the information that the `DateTime`
struct has, and additionally, the offset from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). This way you can avoid potential problems created by the lack of
timezone awareness (see the "Pitfalls" section below for more information).

However, it’s important to note that although `DateTimeOffset` contains more information than `DateTime` by storing the
offset to UTC, it isn’t tied to a specific time zone. This information must be stored separately to have a full picture of the moment in time with the
use of `TimeZoneInfo`.

## How to fix it

In most cases, you can directly replace `DateTime` with `DateTimeOffset`. When hardcoding dates with local kind, remember
that the offset is timezone dependent, so it should be set according to which timezone that data represents. For more information, refer to
`DateTime` and `DateTimeOffset` documentation from Microsoft (see the "Resources" section below).

### Code examples

#### Noncompliant code example

    DateTime myDate = new DateTime(2008, 6, 19, 7, 0, 0, DateTimeKind.Local); // Noncompliant
    
    var now = DateTime.Now; // Noncompliant

#### Compliant solution

    DateTimeOffset myDate = new DateTimeOffset(2008, 6, 19, 7, 0, 0, TimeSpan.FromHours(-7)); // Compliant
    
    var now = DateTimeOffset.Now; // Compliant

### Pitfalls

Common `DateTime` pitfalls include:

-   when working with `DateTime` of kind `Local` consider the time offset of the machine where the program is running. Not
  storing the offset from UTC separately can result in meaningless data when retrieved from a different location.
-   when working with `DateTime` of kind `Unknown`, calling `ToUniversalTime()` presumes the
  `DateTime.Kind` is local and converts to UTC, if you call the method `ToLocalTime()`, it assumes the
  `DateTime.Kind` is UTC and converts it to local.
-   when comparing `DateTimes` objects, the user must ensure they are within the same time zone. `DateTime` doesn’t consider
  UTC/Local when comparing; it only cares about the number of `Ticks` on the objects.

## Resources

### Documentation

-   [Converting
  between DateTime and DateTimeOffset](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/datetime/converting-between-datetime-and-offset?redirectedfrom=MSDN)
-   [Choose between DateTime, DateOnly,
  DateTimeOffset, TimeSpan, TimeOnly, and TimeZoneInfo](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/datetime/choosing-between-datetime)
-   [Performing arithmetic operations with
  dates and times](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/datetime/performing-arithmetic-operations)
-   [TimeZoneInfo documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.timezoneinfo)