## Why is this an issue?
 
When working with LINQ in C#, it is recommended to pay attention to the order in which methods are chained, especially when using `Where` and `OrderBy` methods. It is advised to call the `Where` method before `OrderBy` because `Where` filters the elements of the sequence based on a given condition and returns a new sequence containing only the elements that satisfy that condition. Calling `OrderBy` before `Where`, may end up sorting elements that will be later discarded, which can lead to inefficiency. Conversely, calling `Where` before `OrderBy`, will first filter the sequence to include only the elements of interest, and then sort them based on the specified order.
 
### What is the potential impact?
 
We measured at least 2x improvement in execution time. For more details see the `Benchmarks` section from the `More info` tab.
 
## How to fix it
 
The issue can be fixed by calling `Where` before `OrderBy`.
 
### Code examples
 
#### Noncompliant code example

    public IEnumerable<int> GetSortedFilteredList(IEnumerable<int> data) =>
        data.OrderBy(x => x).Where(x => x % 2 == 0);

#### Compliant solution

    public IEnumerable<int> GetSortedFilteredList(IEnumerable<int> data) =>
         data.Where(x => x % 2 == 0).OrderBy(x => x);

## Resources
 
### Documentation
 
- [Enumerable.OrderBy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.linq.enumerable.orderby)
- [Enumerable.Where](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.linq.enumerable.where)

### Articles & blog posts

- [Jon Skeet’s explanation on Stack
  Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7499384/does-the-order-of-linq-functions-matter/7499454#7499454)

### Benchmarks

| Method | Runtime | Mean | Standard Deviation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| OrderByThenWhere | .NET 7.0 | 175.36 ms | 5.101 ms |
| WhereThenOrderBy | .NET 7.0 | 85.58 ms | 1.697 ms |

#### Glossary

- [Mean](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic_mean)
- [Standard Deviation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_deviation)

The results were generated by running the following snippet with [BenchmarkDotNet](https://github.com/dotnet/BenchmarkDotNet):

    private IList<int> data;
    private static readonly Random Random = new Random();
    
    [Params(1_000_000)]
    public int NumberOfEntries;
    
    [GlobalSetup]
    public void Setup() =>
        data = Enumerable.Range(0, NumberOfEntries).Select(x => Random.Next(0, NumberOfEntries)).ToList();
    
    [Benchmark(Baseline = true)]
    public void OrderByThenWhere() =>
        _ = data.OrderBy(x => x).Where(x => x % 2 == 0 ).ToList();  // OrderBy followed by Where
    
    [Benchmark]
    public void WhereThenOrderBy() =>
        _ = data.Where(x => x % 2 == 0 ).OrderBy(x => x).ToList();  // Where followed by OrderBy

Hardware configuration:

    BenchmarkDotNet=v0.13.5, OS=Windows 10 (10.0.19045.2846/22H2/2022Update)
    12th Gen Intel Core i7-12800H, 1 CPU, 20 logical and 14 physical cores
    .NET SDK=7.0.203
      [Host]               : .NET 7.0.5 (7.0.523.17405), X64 RyuJIT AVX2
      .NET 7.0             : .NET 7.0.5 (7.0.523.17405), X64 RyuJIT AVX2